
# lia 2.0

Wellington is a small city. You can walk from one end of the central district to the other in thirty minutes. My hotel was towards the stadium and, as it was a nice day, I decided to walk along the seafront in the sun. People walked, ran, cycled alongside me. To my left the sea was calm and blue. Bars and restaurants were full of those enjoying the view across the harbour. Up a wide street from the National Museum, away from the sea and vibrant life of the front, Lia stood on a corner. She was tall, thin, pale and wore a short dress with army-like boots. Her arms were both sleeved with tattoos.

"I know somewhere quiet. It has good beer too," she said. We walked along the street and then back towards the sea. We then turned into a archway and then downstairs into a basement bar. It was dark and dingy. The air was stale and smelled of beer and bodies. Small groups of students sat in corners and nooks. I ordered us some interesting beers and we went and sat in a back room, even dingier than the main bar area. It was quiet, with only a young couple, sat at the other end, awkwardly tangled in each others grasp. We sat silently for a while, sipping the beer. "Same again?" she asked. I looked down and saw she had drained hers. "Sure." I said, and she left to get another round. When she returned, she was smiling slightly.

"Back in the clinic, after the operation, Dr Li kept me there for hours. At first, I just drifted in and out, sleeping and dozing. Then, I was hungry and thirsty. He came in with this sweet tea drink in a gaudy bottle and a brown paper bag with this flat savoury pancake. I guzzled the drink and stuffed the pancake down. I could have had anything and it would have been good, but it was *exactly* the right thing at that time. 'You good now,' he said. 'Now I show you how to connect. Okay?' 'This connects you to the Internet.' He held up a smooth cylinder and pushed a small button on the side. It flashed a light blue light. 'You can pair this to your phone, easy for you I think. Okay?' He then gently leaned me forward and pressed the cylinder into the *Gate*. It clicked in. He gave me my phone and I searched for a new device. There was only one listed. I clicked 'Connect' and I felt my mind flash for a moment. It was a strange feeling. Not anything too special, just strange. I wasn't really sure how I was supposed to feel. 'Relax. I will come back in a while. Your brain will work out what to do. Then you need to learn what to do with that. You will be very tired.' He left me. He was right I did feel tired. If I closed my eyes I could see words hanging in the dark, behind my eyelids. I remember drifting off.

"Dr Li came back and woke me. I had no idea of the time, or what was happening. He smiled at me, 'See, I told you it would make you sleepy. I have got you a taxi. You go back to your hotel. Relax and sleep for a week. You will work it out. Once you have managed to get on the Internet, email me. Yes?' I was so dopey and confused, I just agreed. He helped me out of the clinic and bundled me into the taxi. It knew where to go. I must have drifted off, I woke outside the hotel. The concierge shaking my arm to wake me. I went up to my room and slept for two days. I never saw Dr Li again." She stared at me and drained the last of her beer. "Another? Your round I believe," she said.

The beer was strong. I could feel that slight swirl of mind, so I asked the bar man for something not so potent. "This is a good session ale," he said, and pointed at a beer tap with a lurid label I couldn't really read the name of. I asked for two. He poured them and relieved me of a the rest of the NZ Dollars I had. Lia was tapping away on her phone when I got back. "No signal down here, I always forget," she said sliding the phone into the small fabric bag she had with her; then, "Thanks," as I handed her the beer. "Dr Li is back, by the way. He resurfaced about six months ago. Not sure what happened to him. Maybe you should go see him, and finish what you started."

I'm not sure why I said that, why I told her. It was true. Li had come back on the scene. Gray had told me. I wasn't exactly lying when I said I didn't know what had happened to him. The last I knew was he went off the radar after we'd made the call to the local authorities. I didn't know what happened to him after that.

Lia was quiet for a while. She swilled the beer back, finishing the pint when I'd only drunk an inch out of mine. "This was rubbish," she waved the beer glass at me. "Weak as. Wanna 'nother?" I shook my head. At that point I wasn't sure she'd return. She was a good time. And just as I was thinking to check where she'd gone, she returned, another beer in hand. "I think that ship has sailed," she said as she sat down. I looked puzzled. "Going to see Dr Li. What was that, two years? Anyway, as I understand it, all he'd do is connect to me. The direct connection. I've done that. It's no big deal. Well, it is, but once the drama is over, it's just the same as. People are still just people." "Sorry, Lia, I don't follow you. What do you mean, 'once the drama is over, it's just the same?'"

"Look, connecting directly to someone is amazing, at first. In fact, it is like hat first line of cocaine but immediate, or when something has gone wrong and your body dumps out adrenalin and thumps it through your body: you feel widely awake, hyper-alert and your brain seems to be going much faster than it ever has. And you would, someone else's brain is sending yours huge amount of data in a format that is native to you. Your mind doesn't need to process anything, there is no need for translation, or sorting; it is an instant insertion of feeling, thought and information, all wrapped together in one big hit.

"But, this feeling quickly ebbs away so you cannot reach it," she said. "The information shared doesn't stay, it washes in, then out of your mind, like a retreating tide; this is the natural way of dealing with the vast amounts of data we processes each moment. That constant stream that flows into our brains, even without a *Gate*: the images our eyes see; the sounds our ears hear; the smells we breathe; the tastes we ingest; the sensations of touch, of hot or cold, of weight, of wind. An ceaseless deluge floods our brains each second and remarkably, it makes sense of it all, without a conscious thought. It translates it, sorts it, even augments it where it is lacking, and then stores what it thinks it needs and drains what it does not.

"But, after a while, you learn how to retain what you need from the connection. This is tiring, God, so tiring. You are so drained, like every cell in your body is fatigued. I found the only way I could cope was to turn off the *Gate* connection and sleep. Sometimes, I'd do this for days. I suppose that your brain is heavily rewiring. I don't know.

"That's not what I really meant. What I meant was that once all that is over. Once the initial rush is over and you've learnt to deal with it. Well, then all you have is people. God, they are such a let down. It's just the same as normal life. Just people, letting you down. In fact, they were worse, 'cause they thought they were like, supermen or something. Yeah, sure, because you've got a great Internet connection makes you better. Please. The idiots." She laughed. She was bitter. "You connected with Rob Andrew and his mob, yes?" Lia stared at me. "You know that, Charles. You sent me there." "I didn't know the nature of how you, um, interacted, Lia. I've only recently learned of the whole brain to brain thing. Sorry. Maybe, you just had a bad experience; maybe it was because *they* were idiots." I wanted to help her. I really did.

"*The Crackpots*, that's what I called them, Andrews' lot. After Susan had given me their details, I'd followed them down the rabbit hole. There were five of them. They did the corporate website and Intranet for *Bright Futures*. They were nobodies. I told you guys that, but you thought you knew better. They weren't *Bright Futures*, just a bunch of web developers, not techs involved with the *Gates*, or anything. It's just funny now when you think about it." "Why?" I asked. "Well, you had you guys convinced these guys were the real *Bright Futures*, the sinister reality, 'evil transhumans'," she signalled those words with air-quotes, using two fingers on each hand. She laughed. "Your words, Charles, as I recall. I never really got to tell you about them, did I? 

"So, I speak to them. Tell them I have a *Gate*. Tell them I am really into to the whole thing. All that. before I know it I'm on a flight to San Francisco for an interview. It wasn't an interview though, really. I was a sermon. Andrews was telling me, how we were the future. How those without a connection were done for, 'dinosaurs' he called them. He was telling me all this and his cronies, his acolytes, were silent. It was bizarre. We'd sit around like that, listening to him, telling us how was all going to be. Then in the morning, we'd go to work, and deal with issues and code releases, and the usual shit that any web developer would do: team meetings, task lists, code sprints, and so on, you know. Andrews was actually a pretty good team lead, and dev; he was a decent coder. In fact, he would put in the hours fixing the crappy code of the rest of the team, who were, to be frank, awful.

"After a while I got used to all. To the weirdness of it all. Hey, I was in San Francisco, had a good job that had frankly fallen in my lap. I kind of forgot about you and Susan. I just slipped back into my life. Sure, it was crazier than when I was here, but the job was pretty much the same. My evening were similar, drinking in similar bars to this," and she indicated the basement bar we were sat in. "Then one evening, about three months after I'd started, I was talking to Doug, another member of the team. He was okay, I thought, I guess. A terrible developer, but worked hard. But a complete devotee to the *Church of Andrews*. I thought he was cracking onto me, going on about, 'really connecting'. Had I ever done it. Now, listen, I'm a girl working in tech, there's a lot of geeks, so the idea that a man of, say, late twenties, would be asking questions that you'd ask in your teens... Well, I thought he thought I was a virgin. So I played along. I thought it was funny." She pushed her empty glass towards me. "Your round, Mr Godwin."

"Anyway," she continued, with a full glass before her. "Doug tells Andrews. And he gets all creepy, like he's grooming me. Then one evening, he just says, 'Lia, we're going to have to pop your cherry.' I went nuts. I told him, that'd had been popped when I was fifteen. Okay, I was rubbing it in a bit, but I was pushing them off, you know. But, they were all like dogs with bones. And they were going on about *connecting*. Then I got it. They were talking about brain to brain connection. See, I didn't know about it. *Because of what you did to Dr Li, I'm guessing*. So there you go. Those five guys are the sum of my experience. And after the initial rush, which does something to you, if you get my drift," Lia looks at me from under her brows. "After that subsided, I realised what I was left with was just a more intense version of Andrews verbal sermons. In fact, I understood why the others were so usually silent. Andrews was like a loud radio! He never shut up. The only way you could get any peace was switching the *Gate* connection off. Funny thing was, he didn't even notice most of the time." "Push, pull," I interrupted. "What?" "Something someone I know called that type of connection. One of you pushes and the other pulls. It's not really sharing. It's like the Internet; you post something, I read it; and, if you're a big shot, like Andrews thought he was, it's one-way. There's nothing that you could share that's of any interest to the likes of him."

Lia was quiet. She rotated her beer glass back and forth. She stared at it, as if it would give her an answer she wanted. I couldn't give it to her. She was little different to Andrews, really. She was what Gray called a 'wannabe', for whom the idea of being connected was different from the reality. They never gave themselves to others. They were trapped within their own bubbles, bouncing off others, not really connecting, regardless of the fancy tech they rammed into their skulls. Don't get me wrong, Lia wasn't a bad person. She wasn't a narcissist like Andrews, either. But, she was a user like him though; a user of others. She felt entitled; she felt that everyone owed her something, that her failures with people were all due to their lack, not hers. No amount of technology would fix that; only she could do that.







