
# we are all of us responsible

<!-- 
Editing: 
    Check consistency with Chapters 2 and 3
-->

Sally's story is sad enough, on reflection, but I must go on. While the poor child's health was failing her, Lia was undertaking the task we had given her. I have to be honest at this point, I truly thought Lia could pull off her challenge. She started well enough. Within a week she had connected to a small group of software engineers at *Bright Futures*.

I met with Lia in a number of locations around Wellington while I was there. A favourite was a cafe on Cuba Street. We never met anywhere that was not a neutral venue. I never learnt where she lived. Our conversations, that stretched over more than a week, had none of the intimacy of sharing that my sessions with, say, Melvin had. She had no trust in me. She still felt vulnerable to me I assume. Or, maybe, there was nothing below the surface. I don't know. She was late that day. It was our third meeting. I had ordered a coffee and some brunch. It was blowing a gale and gusting rain outside. I had taken a taxi across town. It was quaint to have a driver again. He had taken a long route, I was sure, it was quicker when I walked. The short walk up the pedestrianised section of the street to the cafe had left me soaked. By the time she came in, I had dried out. I ordered another coffee and one for her. "I had a hangover after we last met," she said. She smiled at me. "Me too," I conceded. "Are any of the beers there not, like, ten percent?" She smiled, "No I don't think so."

"So, how did you get back here? We lost touch with you after the leak." "After you had no need for me any more, you mean." She still smiled. She seemed calmer today, the edge that she had carried at our previous meetings had softened. "Anyway, Andrews had this idea that *Bright Futures* was under attack. He didn't make it clear by whom, or how they were attacking. So he brought in a couple of contractors to work on the websites and tasked us instead with hacking media outlets that were publishing anything anti. It was nuts. No one had a clue what they were doing. We were literally surfing the Web all day, looking up how to to do it. He said he had a plan. While we were Googling how to be hackers, he was writing this '*Manifesto*', a rambling list of objectives and demands that would deliver a new society for mankind. It made no sense, it really didn't.

"All we heard, both verbally and directly was the words of that *masterpiece*. Andrews was mad for it. When he finished it, he wanted us to post it on every website on his 'list'. His 'list' was a seemingly unconnected set of sites that 'deserved' our intervention. He said we were going to be like *Anonymous*, the hacker group, and take out or expose those organisations that opposed the *Manifesto* and the intentions of *Bright Futures*. See the issue was that no one I spoke to at *Bright Futures* even said any of this stuff. And let's be clear, sure *Bright Futures* paid our cheques, but we didn't really work for them. We were a services subsidiary, only re-branded the year before. We weren't co-located. We were in a shitty office across the Bay Bridge in Oakland. The *Bright Futures* campus was in San Carlos. WE could have been a cleaning division within the organisation and been closer to what they did and where. Of course, no one had seen the *Manifesto* except us. Andrews' plan was for its publication to be synchronised across these sites he had in this list. But we had no clue how to do.

"Then, one day, Toby, one of the devs, said he'd found a way of hacking into a couple of sites. One was a Baptist Church for fuck's sake. But, of course, one was *ConnectU Services*, Melvin Taylor's company, who I used to work for. Before I knew it, Andrews had his stupid *Manifesto* up on the front page on both sites." Lia laughed and shook her head. "I'm laughing, because the Baptist Church didn't notice for over a month. But *ConnectU Services*, well, as soon as it was up, the shit hit the fan. And I was covered in it, up to my neck. They were pissed off, of course. Not because of Andrews' fucking *Manifesto*. No one fucking cared about that except cranks like you, Charles, who saw it as a smoking gun, or something. No, they were pissed because of Melvin's link to *Bright Futures*. Because of his granddaughter. And, of course, because they were totally embarrassed. A tech company, worse a tech company that sold security to services to paying customers. Hacked by idiots. They threw the sink at me. Ex-employee, radical, loner, loser. I was toast. And where were you and your merry band, Godwin? Fucking nowhere. that's where. You hung me out to fucking dry! The only reason I was in the US was because you had set it up. I was working for you. You got your coup. You got both Melvin Taylor and *Bright Futures* dragged through the mud. Did I get a reward? *Did I fuck! You did nothing, said nothing! You let me rot! You cunt!*" Lia was shouting at me now. Her face was fury; drops of spittle flicked from her lips as she raged in my face. The cafe was silent, staring at us.

Lia stood up, her chair falling backwards, clattering into the cake cabinet behind her. She turned and strode towards the door. "And fuck all of you too!" She yelled back into the cafe, the door open and the tempest outside blew in her words with a roar. The door closed. The place was still. Then slowly, the noise of clinking cups and knives on plates resumed, then whispers, then chatter. It was as if nothing had happened. Everyone just got on with their business, drinking the good coffee, eating the nice food; they had all forgotten Lia and how her life had disintegrated. No one truly cared. I finished the last of my coffee and got up to pay. "I'm sorry about that," I said to the barista at the till. "No worries, bro. People just got to let it out sometimes, aye," he replied. I left and the wind and rain hit my face like a slap.

Do I feel bad, about what happened to Lia? Sure. That said, we had got what we needed from her within a month of her joining the '*Crackpots*'. Yes, the *Manifesto* was pure gold and tying in both *Bright Futures* and Melvin Taylor, couldn't have been better. But, Susan had told her, that we had what we needed. She stayed nonetheless. She admitted she had enjoyed it there, the life there, showing off to her friends in Wellington of her job in San Francisco. She stayed. She had connected to Andrews and his acolytes. She was there when they hacked into those sites. She could have left, but she stayed. We are, all of us, responsible for what happened.
