
# revert to previous commit 

In the morning, before I went to see Melvin, on that rainy day, I did a strange thing. For me anyway. I went to a flotation therapy clinic, in West London. I had looked them up on the Web, their sales pitch was to provide people a refuge from the stresses of modern life and float in these tanks, listening to whale-song. Their website was all a bit hippy new-age; all bamboo groves and joss-sticks; full of meaningless phrases of deserving self-seeking. I booked in for a two-hour session. When I got there, it really wasn't like the website, at all. Instead, it was like a cliche future: a hyper-modern clinic, staffed by beautiful people, in immaculately tailored white tunic suits. A blonde goddess, doubtless named Lenina, led me to a room. Inside it was so white that my eyes struggled to focus on the details in the bright light. With the door closed, it was silent. It was immaculate. It smelt faintly of a herbal scent I couldn't place. In the centre was a huge white pod, smooth and curved like a marble pebble, shaped like a semi-flattened egg. I undressed and put my jarringly non-white clothes in a cabinet. Naked, I pressed the illuminated button and the pod opened, slowly. It was full of water, subtly lit with a blue light. I got in. The water was felt neither warm or cold. It was not there. I closed the lid. Just at the point it clicked shut, I could just see the light in the room outside go out. I put in some ear plugs that were in a tray at my elbow and stretched out. I floated. The blue light dimmed, and went out. It was black. The water was salty. I could hear my blood, pumping. I relaxed, and I could hear my heart slow. My thoughts were vivid, focussed. I thought of Sally Taylor. I imagined her, while I floated there.

As deprived of normal sensations as I was, I was nowhere near how Sally must have felt. I could feel my tongue in my mouth, moving. I could tense my thighs or my buttocks and feel the water move across my skin. I could feel my breath enter and leave my nostrils. I could hear the organic machinery of my body. I could sense my living self. I could speak and hear my voice, though loud, through my skull. I was alive, even though I could not see, I could feel.

As I floated there, in that pod designed to deprive you of your senses, huge amounts of data was still flowing into my brain. In fact, my limited senses were heightened. I was hyper-aware of things with those I still had. While I could enjoy this unusual feeling, I thought of her. She was cut off from all senses. She had none. The tank had not brought me any closer to understand how Sally felt. I couldn't, Sally felt nothing.

Later that day, Melvin had brought me to see Sally. We took a taxi to the hospital where she had been for over two years. We said nothing as the taxi quietly splashed through the city streets. Water ran down the windscreen and I pushed the wiper button to clear it, so I could see as we pulled up outside the hospital. The red brick of the old hospital buildings was stained dark in the wet. It loomed over us as we ran inside, still silent, our backs spotted with the rain that splattered there.

She lay motionless, Sally, grey-skinned, lifeless, supported only by machines, fed through a tube, her waste collecting in a bag. She lies there still, she will never move from that place, I think, not physically. The room was brightly painted and there were fresh flowers and well-wishers' cards on the surfaces behind the partition window. The medical machinery that surrounded her made her look to me shrunken in size, even though, as Melvin had said, she was a tall girl for a twelve-year old. She was only two inches shy of my five feet eleven. There was no life in that room, it was more a crypt, with Sally's body like mummified remains. The rain was still pouring outside and the sky was dark. The trees in the square moved their black limbs in the wind that had picked up. Rain began to hit the external window as it swirled around in the gloom.

Melvin and I each sat in a chair on either side of Sally's bed. We wore identical clean room clothing; our hands and faces reddened by scrubbing required for entry into her room. He spoke quietly, almost a whisper, as if not to rouse her; his voice seemed muffled by the face mask he wore. I had to lean in, to hear him clearly. I was very close to her then. I watched her chest rise and fall in time to a bellows that rose and fell within a glass cylinder. The rain bounced on the window, the ventilator slowly hissed, the heart monitor gave quiet beeps. These were the only sounds in that room.

"Those early text-based communications were harrowing," he said, ending the hush. "That black space she lived in. The only stimulation she received was the messages that came through the *Gate*. If the words stopped, there was nothing left: a void without echo. It terrified us as it must have terrified her. Sally's mother found it very hard. Joan took the brunt of Sally's suffering. She took the insults, the raging texts. She took them as her mother. She took them because no one else would, not even me. I think only she knew what that place was like, where Sally was. She knew it through the reflected mirror of Sally's fury. She would sit here, alone mostly, for days. She would fuss over Sally's appearance, how her hair was, whether she had clean bed clothes. She would read to her. She would describe her day. Even though she knew the only way to get through to her was through the device embedded in her head. I think she hated that. It was unnatural, true enough. It was as if Sally no longer lived in the physical world and had become a ghost. She haunts this place, but does not live here. She lives somewhere else. I am not sure, Charles, where that place is. Is it in her head? How do any of us know for sure?"

I couldn't fathom the depth of despair of that place. I was, and still am, terrified of looking into its possibility. I think because of that I can sympathise with Joan Taylor, Sally's mother.
