
# the image of frankenstein

The hush of the hospital room followed us, back to Melvin's house. It was still raining. At the house, he made sandwiches and we ate them silently in the kitchen. We sat at a bare wooden table on chairs. The chairs were old or new made to look old, either way, they were hard and uncomfortable. Still, as we ate, something in me felt shame of the physical enjoyment eating gave me. The usual calm that I felt when with Melvin was absent. He was tense.

"Do you remember the day we first me, Charles?" I did. I remembered Melvin walking into the boardroom of the Great Portland Street office of *ConnectU Services*. Funny, even though I was sat opposite him only two years later, my memory of him that day was of a taller, younger, more vigorous man. That man was busy and irritated at the invitation to that meeting. "I do remember, Melvin, I remember you being particularly harassed." "I was busy. The world had gone to shit and I had been called in by the board. I knew something was up, as I no longer had anything to do with the day to day operations of the company."

The *ConnectU Services* offices used to be those of a television company, I forget the name, when broadcast TV was a thing, when people used to sit and watch what they were told they wanted to watch. I'd imagine the building was pretty flash, back in the day. Now, it was badly in need of renovation and looked worn and tatty. Because of that, it was cheap office space, for its size and location. Ideal for a IT services company that was obsessed with staying visible to customers, but keeping costs down. Of course, I knew all this as I was a significant share holder in *ConnectU Services*. That was the reason I was at the meeting, as the shareholders representative. You see, there is so much luck in this story. It seems all designed, but it was mostly just chance.

"Even though I knew that something was up," Melvin then said. "I was blind sided by what they said. It was all so personal. And of course, anybody who mentioned Sally was going to light my fuse at that time. Add to that, it was Grant Hoskins who called the meeting. I thought he was a prick. You know, he was a bean counter, who didn't have an ounce of business acumen, who'd worked himself up onto the board. I never liked him. Was he your friend, Charles?" I laughed. I didn't like Grant either. He was one of those empty ambitious types, I felt. Those people who gained promotion and position by just outlasting everyone else, not because they had any significant talent. He reminded me of Conrad's the station manager in *Heart of Darkness*, who only had reached that position because he had a bulletproof constitution and thrived while everyone else's health failed them. Grant Hoskins' was as equally petty and jealous towards those with any talent. He was openly critical of Melvin's time running the company. He was a key ally at that time, but I disliked him intensely. "No, he was not my friend, Melvin." I said. "He was just useful. To be honest with you, I couldn't stand the man. I hated the way he was so smug every time he thought he had the upper hand." Melvin nodded at me. 

"'Come in Melvin, please have a seat,'" he mimicked Hoskins' petty tone. "' We won't take up much of your *valuable* time. I'm sure you have lots on you plate right now, what with the media interest, and everything.'" Melvin's impression was good. He also highlighted the purpose of the meeting. There *was* concern at the media attention that *ConnectU Services* had at that time; it was not good for business. It was shown in the stock price. Melvin had, for some years now, been little more than a figurehead. The company was run by the likes of Hoskins now. The hacking incident was a huge embarrassment. And Hoskins felt it was Melvin's involvement with *Bright Futures* that was to blame, not his inept leadership, of course. He was clearly accountable for the company's security policy, but he had argued that the breach was targeted at *ConnectU Services* because of Melvin.

"What I hated about that session was the logic was wrong. Hoskins was covering up his own ineptitude by throwing dirt my way. You remember it, 'Don't you think, Melvin, that the attention you are receiving because of Sally, is not in line with what is best for *ConnectU Services*,'" Melvin again took on the tones of Hoskins. "Why would Sally make *ConnectU Services* a target? Especially, given the hackers were pro-Transhuman and indirect employees of *Bright Futures*. The man was an idiot. The logic was all wrong. But people were lapping it up. Of course, I didn't know then, that you were behind it. It all made sense once I knew your agenda, Charles." Melvin shook his head. "Did you believe what you said? Do you believe it that stuff now? Or was it just an angle, something to get people all emotional and misdirected from any sensible discussion?" He had me then. I wasn't sure. See, like I said before, a lot of this was just happened. I suppose, my talent is riding events when they are going my way. Looking back then, with these questions and the ramifications of any answers I could give, I wasn't sure what to say. "I don't know, Melvin," was all I could come up with. "You don't know! What do you mean, you don't know?" "I mean, that like lots of things that happen, I wasn't fully in control." "But what you asked me, about Sally, 'Do you think Sally is still alive, or rather, do you think she is still the same girl, is she still you granddaughter?' You said that. That's pretty direct. You saw her as an abomination. You said so, not then, but later. Your argument was always about her, not about the share price of *ConnectU Services*" We fell silent. The hard wooden chairs were uncomfortable making me shift in my seat. I wanted to leave, or at least move somewhere where my arse wasn't hurting so much. Melvin sighed and shook his head.

"It wasn't about her. I don't know what I felt, to be honest. I started out with a simple idea: that Transhumanism is wrong, that tinkering with ourselves is wrong. It's everywhere, Melvin. And no one is asking the big questions. People are putting devices in their brains, others, do it yourself gene-therapy, some are trying to create artificial life; it is happening all around us. How's it all going to end? That is what I wanted to ask. No one knows! We are all of us just drifting towards a future that may have no humanity. That idea terrifies me, Melvin. That is what I am about. I fear the future. But Sally? Jesus, she's just a kid. Was a kid. But, if we just cut through all the emotion, for a moment, my question to you that day *was* valid. In order to keep her alive, you made her something else." Melvin put his hand out, across the table to stop me. "Yes, I remember, I made her something else, 'Like Frankenstein', you said." God I was so uncomfortable, the edge of the hard chair was pressing into the back of my legs, my feet were numb. "I am sorry. I just want to ask the question. It wasn't meant to be an attack like that. Really, I am sorry."

Melvin's fingers drummed on the table. I crossed and uncrossed my legs and shifted my weight to lessen the pressure. "Well," he said, his voice once again calm, "I guess I had been hanging on too long there anyway. Only pride that day made me stay longer. I could have agreed and offered my resignation. I would have made a deal. It would have taken the wind of your sails. But I could stand the idea of Hoskins face, gloating over my exit." He shook his head. Was my apology enough? Did Melvin forgive me for that day, and what I had said? He continued, "That was a missed opportunity. And God only knows it left me out of pocket. Pride. It's a terrible thing. Not knowing when you are beaten, trying to get that last punch in. And that man just has a punchable face, don't you think." He laughed. "Oh yes, that he does," I agreed. I felt elated. I was sure that he had moved on.

"Listen, Melvin, I have to go. Thank you once again." I said as I lifted myself up, my feet still no more than lumps of flesh. I leant down on the table and shook them out. Melvin looked up at me and grinned as if the torture he had put me through had been enjoyable. "I'm sure I will see you again soon, Charles." He stood also and struck out his hand. I looked at the hand for a moment and then dashed out my own to meet it. We shook and I turned and left towards the front door, my feet and legs not quite yet my own to command. "See you, Melvin," I said as I closed the the door. Outside it was dark and the rain still came belting down. I put on my umbrella and looked for a taxi. My hands were wet and my phone would accept my fingerprint. I walked, the feeling in my feet returning only to find them wet. I felt wretched.





