
# Chapter 11 - Mr Godwin

I'll get back to Gray later; she's interesting. But, first I need to let you know more about myself. As you can see, I'm not pulling any punches here, when I tell you how people talk about me. But, to avoid burning myself in front of you and you cheering, at least let me make me human enough in your eyes so you turn your head away as the flames lick at me.

I am American by birth, but lived most of my life in Britain. I was educated there. My parents were rich and I can't say that any point in my life has been materially hard. I had an expensive education, which gives you, in Britain at least, two things: a general air of superiority, and good connections. It also gave me the knowledge that an education, of the kind I had, allows many of the recipients to achieve things they otherwise would not. I saw a TV programme not long ago, if I am correct it was while I was in New Zealand. It showed abandoned dogs being trained to do all manner of things. It was amazing what they got these mutts to do; one could even drive a car, I kid you not! My point, though, is with enough time and with good training even a dog can do clever looking things. This is similar to an expensively bought education - it trains people to attain all manner of impressive achievements. Luckily, I was always smart too, so, that training was well worth my parent's money. They would have been satisfied with their investment, I think, were it not that they are dead. They died diving in the Caribbean. My mother decided, typically, to use the cheapest diving company she could find and they asphyxiated while looking at an artificial reef, a sunken container ship, off the coast of Trinidad. I was twelve. When I was told I didn't cry. Later that day I picked a fight, something I had never done before, or since. My lack of familiarity with it showed and the boy, I think reluctantly, gave me a decent hiding. Later that week I stole a watch and fountain pen from a teacher. They were pretty nice and expensive. I wasn't really sure what I was going to do with them, and I panicked when we were told our dormitory would be searched for them. So I hid them in the same boy's dorm trunk while he was at the detention he received for thumping me. His family were not too wealthy. He never went on those school trips abroad, like skiing. He was expelled. The following term I was on the school ski trip, the one the boy never went on because his parents couldn't afford it. While away, I celebrated my birthday, which I shared with another boy. In previous years we'd both had a party, with cake and sweets and presents all sent to our lodge. It was arranged by our mothers and had become competitive, with cakes getting bigger and the presents more expensive each year. That year the other boy had won.

So what, you say. See, I didn't mean for that boy to beat me up, it wasn't a plot to gain sympathy or attention. I just picked the fight with him because I was angry my parents had died. I felt bad when he got the detention. Nor did I mean to steal the watch and pen. I saw them while I sat out gym. They looked nice. I didn't have a nice pen or watch. I don't know what I was thinking. I did panic when I heard they were going to search the dorms. The boy's trunk was unattended and you could get there without anyone seeing. See, I picked a fight with the boy at random and chose his trunk because he was unlucky enough to have a bed in a place I could not be seen by others in the dorm, and he was in detention. I didn't mean for it to happen. I didn't set out to get him expelled. And even that wouldn't have happened if his parents were rich and not always late with paying the fees. He was unlucky. I met him years later in bar in London. When I saw him my heart sank to my feet. There he was, I felt I'd ruined his life or something, and there he was, looking over at me. So I just went over to him and I came clean to him. I have to admit, I was fully expecting a second beating. But he just laughed. He said he had hated it at that school, 'Full of snobs and dimwits,' he said. He only stuck it out because his parents made such sacrifices to send him there. Instead, he went to the local grammar school and went on annual skiing trips with his parents with the money they saved. The local school was good, and he did well. He became a lawyer and was then a partner in a pretty big financial law firm. He was doing alright.

See, I was involved, but not to blame. Even if I was to blame, I was twelve and the extent of my guilt was limited; even if I was, what would I be to blame for? Stealing the watch? Getting the boy expelled? Making him happier when he left? Causing him to go on skiing holidays? I am not ashamed of things I have done. Why should I be. I have never set out to harm anyone. I cannot always predict what is going to happen when I do something. Also, the people I warred with, as I have said, none of them are without blame either. All have made their choices and their mistakes. And, Sally Taylor, she is like me and that boy at school. She's twelve now. She's made decisions, remarkable as that seems. Is she to blame for anything?
