
# Chapter 12 - The joy of text is overrated

<!-- Key science and pop-psychology chapter. It has to answer the questions:

1. How is Sally kept alive?
2. Can this be sustained, long-term, or does she recover her physical function (to a degree)?
3. How is sight and hearing restored, in the medium term
4. Is there another stage - does Sally recover sufficient motor function to leave hospital?
5. Is the uplift at the end due to her recovery??

-->
Raphaella DiCosta was not an easy woman to see. I wanted to see her to help me understand why Sally had had further surgery and whether that had helped her mental state. Gray had help arrange the meeting. Even so, I heard nothing for a couple of months. Given how everyone else had opened up I wondered whether Raphaella wanted to. There was still some concern about the company's involvement and how they had pressed Melvin to try out new things for Sally. In the end, *Brighter Futures'* approach was found to be right, I guess. There is no doubt that without their pressure, and Raphaella's in particular, Sally would not be alive today.
    Sally's physical health had been hanging from the thinnest of threads for the first four month after her illness struck. Her case was highly unusual; that it was accepted she was alive at all was something that would have been impossible only a decade earlier; that she could survive for so long with her body artificially sustained was, frankly, incredible to medical science, even now. Then when all hope was waning, her heart began to beat without support. She began to stabilise and she returned back within the known boundaries of well understood science.
    Still, though, her mind was trapped. There had been physical improvement, true, but there had been no sign of any reconnection of those natural circuits that fed information from the outside world into her brain. The only data that flowed was via a brain computer interface that had been surgically attached inside her skull. The information that came through the *Gate* was largely text-based, either from other people, such as her mother or grandfather, or from the Internet. Gray described it to me as what it must have been like to be online in nineteen-ninety-five. "Mostly text, a few easy to download images, either not much colour or too much colour!" She couldn't take complex images, certainly not those with movement or sound; something to do with the wrong part of the brain doing the processing, or something, I'm not an expert. Anyway, it wasn't enough. I really think that we underestimate the enormous volume of data we all process. I remember when they were first trialling self-driving vehicles. When I was a boy they had this race in the desert in America somewhere. The vehicles couldn't do it. For years they failed to finish the event. There was just too much going on for the computers at the time. Even today, when you take a taxi or a car share, sure they are good now, but they can only do one thing. We can drive a car, have a conversation, think about dinner, plan the day, listen to the radio, enjoy the view, decide where to go after the trip you were on then, decide whether to divorce your husband - you get it. Our brains process all that information coming in through our eyes and ears, as well as any computer, all the while doing something else more stimulating. All that in a compact form you could hold in one hand. 
    I really wanted to get into this, to understand it all. I was about to go back to Gray, when I received an email. Raphaella was in town, she could meet the following day. I sent Gray a thank-you and organised a lunch. 

Raphaella was a good looking woman. She was tall, slim and walked with an elegant confidence that drew the eye. She was over fifty, but was popular with men and women half her age. I had never actually met her before that meeting, I'd seen her on TV, sure, but I underestimated how she would look in real life. The venue was average, one of those gastropubs that popped up, and down, across London. I liked the river, that was why I chose it; that and the fact it was away from the centre of the city; I wanted her to travel a little, so she would treat it less casually. When she walked in wearing a plain navy trouser suite, she looked overdressed; she was that glamorous.
    "Charles," she said shaking my hand. She sat and looked at me. "Melvin and Gray have filled me in with what you are doing. Are you seeking redemption?" She sat back and pointed a spiky shoe at me from a crossed leg. "No. I am not. I'm not sure I really want that," I said. "I just want to get an insight into the way things were, you know, with Sally. None of us are whiter than white, are we? I want to know about why you convinced Melvin that Sally needed more surgery and more enhancements." We ordered food. Raphaella also ordered a jug of beer, something that bemused the waiter. "A jug, you must have one. Fill it up with beer. It saves you coming back every five minutes, doesn't it." The poor guy practically ran off, stinging no doubt from the verbal slap she had given him.
    "Yes, Sally. Hmm, we were all in a bit of fix at that point. We really thought the Internet would give her what she wanted, but Gray soon told us that she was struggling. You see it wasn't as if she was stuck in a library and she could just go and get a breath of fresh air when she got bored, was it? No, as Gray said, it was more like an equivalent of solitary confinement, with only phone calls and books to keep her occupied. She didn't even have the enjoyment of eating, to break up her day, poor girl. At least, we needed to let her out and take a turn or two around the yard, so to speak." Raphaella took a mouthful of beer and then continued. "We could see that her health was starting to be challenged again. It were as if, without  mental stimuli, her physical well being was adversely affected. She was sad.
    "After her heart function had returned and we had given her access to the Internet, her physical improvement was remarkable. We could clearly see her mental states, externally - whether she was awake or asleep - whereas before, it was a delicate thing and mostly inferred. Once the she had more people to speak to via the Internet everything just became stronger. But, it didn't last. After nearly six months she was beginning to become frail again, physically. She went down with a couple of infections and had some skin issues. Her bloods indicated she was under a lot of stress. Melvin said, she had gone back to being snappy and unpleasant when he was talking to her. He's put it down to a phase, you know, a child development phase. God, that man is so patient. But Gray said it wasn't that. They could see Sally was lonely, bored and just plain sad. It were as if she had nothing really to look forward to.
    "Of course, I was in a difficult situation. I had been branded the Devil's Advocate, after an interview I had given on TV. We had underestimated the sentiments people had about what Sally had gone through and *Bright Futures'* part in it. Of course, Charles, you did a great job at making all that mud stick, didn't you? But the truth is that people *are* uncomfortable with what we are doing and what was being done to Sally. It doesn't take a intelligent person long to see the possibilities of what was happening to Sally. If that is applied to the rest of the human race there will be huge change and people are afraid of that. 
    "So, all of this didn't make a great place to say that Sally needed more enhancements. In fact, I sat on the whole idea for a couple of months, to be honest. Sure, we looked into what could be done, but I didn't discuss it with Melvin. Sally's deteriorating health was an opportunity. I think that if her physical health hadn't been an issue, then no amount of positive ideas would have swayed him. And as for Joan, she was, is, a hysterical person. Everything is an emotional event to her; she is incapable of a logical discussion, on any topic, let alone on the well-being of her daughter. So, there was no way I could have any form of conversation with the woman. I mean this was someone who had Melvin arrested - for saving her own daughter's life, for fuck's sake! She should be ashamed of herself." Raphaella stopped. She picked at some of the food on her plate. I waited for her to continue.
    "Sorry, I've got off topic. Joan and I have never seen eye to eye." She paused again, and then telling me things I had never heard before. Oh, how these would have been such gold a year or so ago. "A few of the more adventurous of our control study groups, those following Gray's group, they had played with enhanced senses. In order for the conscious mind to deal with sensory information, such as sight or sound, certain parts of the brain needed to interpret the data first. It's an amazing thing. Take sight, for example. Photons of light hit our retinas and are captured by...
<!-- ... description of how the eye works, what parts of the brain does the processing, then how we consciously "see" and then store images (hippocampus)... -->

... This is incredible. Without it our "mind's eye" doesn't function either. Otherwise, it is only abstract, like words, or text. And as Sally would tell you, the joy of text is overrated. 
    "So, the group had enhanced their parts of the brain that dealt with vision and sound and had it hacked so that the information that came from the Internet, or directly from another person, could be consciously manipulated. This is what I hoped we could do for Sally. Basically, we'd be able to allow her to see and hear again. I had to bring it up with Melvin. Sally was not feeling great again. I spoke to him, saying that I was worried about her. I just dumped out what I was thinking. I said, 'I think I have an idea that will help. We are convinced that the majority of Sally's problems are due to the fact she doesn't have enough going, her senses are under loaded. I think Sally would be keen to have more.' He wasn't happy, he felt I was manipulating him.
<!-- 
R. convinces Melvin of the procedure. In fact, Sally herself is keen on it. She knows about it all. This is how they convince Joan, by Sally demanding that it happen. 

Melvin's reaction at first is sceptical -->

Grandad looked at her hard, "Happy for yourself too, no doubt. She's your ultimate saleswoman. She wants more and more. I'm afraid of where it will go. Her mother is so conflicted."
"I don't understand. What option do you have? You're happy with how she is? You're happy with her just surfing the Internet all day and watching videos of the world about her. She wants interaction. She is smart and has worked it out. If she is stuck physically as she is, she will never be able to live any sort of fulfilled life. She wants more than to be able to message people. She wants to see them directly and that they see her."

"Raphaella, are you fitted with a *Gate*?" "No." "Why? It seems that it is only fair that you, how would you say it, 'Eat your own dog food?'" "I don't see it like that at all, Charles. What has my having a - I don't like calling it a *Gate* - a device inserted in my head. What has that to do with my job?" Raphaella seemed annoyed at me. I had her in a corner. "So, you don't see why people find you, uncomfortable? Aren't you like a car manufacturer who prefers to drive their own car, rather than have their own product do it for them? You don't trust your own product, is that it?" I had pressed a button she didn't want pressing.
    "Why do you think I should? I have never felt the need for it. I cannot see what it would give me that I don't have already." Her voice had an edge to it, the usual confident smoothness then was ragged. Then, she brightened. "I think, Charles, that you see everything with a perspective does no justice to reality. You think, because of the usage of the, um, *Gate* as an augmentation, you think that all of us at *Bright Futures* are transhumanists. True?" I nodded. "Well," she continued, "that is not the case. Our goal is really about cases like Sally, improving lives. We make many products, only a few are neuroprosthetics. In fact, I can firmly say, none of us imagined the usage these have been put to. Nor, do I believe that these are as amazing as you or others, even Gray, are stating. I think that Lia Cox's experience is more representative of the general experience; it is fairly mundane and ultimately disappointing for the recipient. Only Sally's is truly remarkable, and that is what we developed the technology for in the first place. I see no value in it for me, I'm afraid." She smiled, "Sorry, I've disappointed you." She was right.


