
# old days connections

I could have spent hours with Gray. By rights, she should hate me, or at least be so suspicious of me, but she was nothing like I expected. She had a Zen-like charm, and the calm that produced was infectious. I had wanted her to stay that evening, I really had, but she had left not long after midnight. The taxi was already waiting outside. She hugged me, I felt her firm body press against me, briefly, and then she left, into the drizzling rain. I watched the car reverse and trundle off, away along the cobbles of the mews. I wondered whether this was her decision alone, or she had deferred the decision to those wiser in such circumstances. I went to bed soon after. I didn't sleep well. Too many beers made my body restless, leaving my mind awake enough to turn over the thoughts I had of Gray and her story, again and again.

Next day, I rose early, bleary. I had a busy day ahead. Melvin had arranged for us to meet his daughter Joan, Sally's mother. I needed to pull myself back to the present and prepare myself. The curious calm the previous night's conversations had created, would be soon broken by a thin, whining woman who did her utmost to undo any sympathy you had for her. I arrived sometime after ten o'clock at Melvin's house. Joan was already there. She was already angry with me.

"You are late, Mr Godwin." She looked at me as if I was covered in shit. Her nose was lifted and her eyes had a pained expression, caused it seemed by looking at me. How was I going to deal with her and avoid the potential train wreck that would prevent me completing my narrative journey? 'Ah, Gray, where are you, when I need you?' I though to myself. 

We were both ushered by Melvin into the same room as the other times I had met him. He seemed anxious and irritated. I sat on the leather sofa and was joined by him. He theatrically leant back into the sumptuous seat, his hands on his head, their fingers entwined, holding on for dear life.

"Please sit down, Joan, you're making the place look untidy," Melvin said, bluntly, to his daughter. She sat, twisted, on the arm of the matching leather chair opposite. Her arms folded across her flat chest. "Okay, Charles, what questions do you have for us today? I think Joan will have an interesting angle on events. Obtuse to mine at least!"

I wanted to leave. It was so tense. The room felt stifling. "Thank you both for meeting me. I know, Joan, that this is not easy." She frowned at me and then stared away across the room. "What I'd love to have is an anecdote, a story, that helps me understand how you you both coped with what happened to Sally. Maybe something that made you closer?" The word hung in the air. Closer, they couldn't have been so obviously further apart.

"Why are you doing this Godwin? You run out of money or something?" Joan's voice was hard and sneering. Melvin let his hands slip from his head, sliding them across his face. He sighed. He leant forwards, "Joan, we've spoken about this. Charles is trying to work this all through. It's not for money, God, he seems rich enough, and if we don't like what he comes out with, it gets buried. That's right, isn't it Charles?" 

I nodded, "That's right. The business of before is finished, I have no intention of going back there. What's the point. I doubt anyone would be interested in *my* side of the story now anyway. But, to close everything out, and there was a lot going on, I thought I'd get everyone else's point of view. I have some people, some connections, who are interested in publication - you know, serialisation in a national paper, that sort of thing, maybe TV. Anything made, money-wise, goes straight to Sally, to help with her long-term care. You both won't be always here to help her, you know that." I looked at Melvin. He looked old today. His face was grey and creased. His eyes were lacking their usual sparkle. "Look, I know this may all look weird, Joan. And, maybe it is. But, as I said to Melvin, there is a lot of shit written about Sally, about you guys, about everything. People need to know the real story. Jesus, there is a lot of haters out there. I was one. And Sally is only twelve. She can't be to blame. Nor can you."

"What, and you're the fucking person, to tell the story?" Joan's narrow, pinched face, was drawn into a furious mask. Her mouth was tight and the words spat out. "You fucking hypocrite! You just want people to listen to you again. You're like a needy child, Godwin. You just like the attention. It must have killed you, the last year, when everyone left your *cause*, and left you to sink, to be a nobody."

"Joan!" Melvin shouted. His voice boomed out. It filled the room and made Joan jump. He rubbed his face with his hand. "This doesn't help us." His voice was quiet now. "We can't just let the story be as it is. It's not right. Everyone believes that Sally is an abomination. They believe we are evil abusers. She needs a future. But, the world has moved on, no one wants to listen any more.  He," and his long finger jabbed at me, "may be the way to redress some of these issues. Regardless of what people think of him," the finger again, "he's got contacts, he can get the story out there. I've been talking to Charles for weeks now. He has stuck to his end of the bargain, so far." He leant back, and fell into the soft cushion of the sofa, sank into it and let the wave of fatigue wash over him; he closed his eyes. The room was silent. I sat and watched Melvin. Joan stared at me. Time passed. It felt like an age. A silent, invisible battle was being fought between father and daughter, attritional, a fight until only one would remain. In those moments I saw the nature of them. They were opposing forces, a vast swath of blasted space lay between them, a no man's land, in which Sally dwelt, isolated and alone.

"I know a moment." Melvin spoke suddenly, his eyes still clamped shut. "Joan, you know it, when you saw Sally again." Joan nodded, her gaze broke from me and the hateful mask fell away and her face softened. She stared at the floor and sucked in a huge breath. She said, "It was when Raphaella had managed to get Sally to see again." She laughed, quietly, gently. "Melvin said to me, 'put these on.' He stood over me, holding a large, black pair of goggles. I said, 'what are they?' And he told me they were virtual reality goggles. 'I want to show you something,' he said. To be honest, I was tired, so tired then. Everyday some clown from *Bright Futures* would give you an *amazing* update, some trick, some gadget, *everyday*. I'd never seen VR goggles before. Well, I'd heard of them, in fact, I remember that at one of Sally's friend's birthday party all the kids were going nuts over trying out them. Sally was mad for them, wanted them. I'd always said no. She spent enough time with her face in front of a screen, without goggles on. So, I thought, 'this better be good.' Otherwise, I was going to take it out on someone.

"So I put them on. They came with little ear-pieces that I had to push into my ears. It was black. There was nothing to see. Dad said, 'wait a moment Joan, just wait.' Then a voice came into my ears. 

"'Hello mum.'  

"I said, 'Who's that?' And voice came back, 'It's me, Sally, silly.' The voice hit me. I was Sally! Not as I remembered exactly, but right somehow. 'Oh God! You can speak now? My baby!' I said. I remember tears, tears pooling along the edges of my eyes, causing a sprinkling of tiny lights across my vision. I wanted to wipe them, but I'd have to take off the blasted goggles. Then Sally said, 'yes, I can speak mum. Relax. Are you ready?' 'For what, baby?' I asked. 'For me!' And this light at the centre of my vision appeared. I remember I blinked rapidly, trying to clear the tears. It was weird. My hand reached out and waved urgently at the outside room. I could hear Sally laughing! I asked her, 'What is it? Sally, sweetheart?' The light grew from the point in front of me and started to form a shape. A distant figure was moving towards me. It moved like a mirage, waving in an imagined haze. Then it became solid, a person, a girl. Sally.

"I panicked. I ripped the goggles from my head. I remember that the one ear-piece stuck in my ear, and stung. I was furious. I don't know why. I felt blind-sided. 'What is this dad? God what is this?' I demanded of Melvin. I threw the goggles to the floor. I sobbed. I felt I'd returned to that state of grief, when I thought Sally had died. I was stunned. I also knew that Sally would be angry too. Like she would get with me when I was texting her and I didn't respond quickly enough, or said something stupid. She thought I was stupid, because of things like this.

"Dad had rescued the fallen goggles and put them onto his own head. He said, 'Sally? I'm sorry. Your mum got a shock.' He had laughed. He was laughing with Sally about me, and how stupid I was. I was furious. It was always like this, those two, together, great buddies. They were always laughing at me. I could never be with Sally like my father was. Dad had removed the goggles. He offered them to me again. I wanted to run out of the room to be honest, but then it would be just those two again, and me the 'stupid mother'. I put them back on.

"'Are you okay, mum?' A little girl stood there in front of me, in her favourite blue and grey dress, upon a black plain with no obvious end. Her dark hair was perfectly combed into two neat bunches either side of her head, each held in place with a matching blue bow. 'Sure, I'm fine. Just a shock. Sorry, kitten. Mummy's silly,' I said. 'I know. We should have warned you what would happen. Sorry, mum,' the virtual Sally said. I swallowed my anger at her, 'Hey that dress would be too small now, wouldn't it? That's what you wore at my birthday three years ago!' She looked silly. I'd never have let her dress like that. She was dressed like when she was six, not ten years-old. I asked her, 'Why would you wear that?' Sally's voice fell, it was no longer excited. 'It's your favourite. Mine too. I wore last summer, before I was sick, it still fit." She smiled at me, an uncertain smile. 'Hey! Look at you with your smile. I *know* that dress was a struggle to get into last summer!" I laughed at her. 'Anyway, you monkey, you think it's funny making your mum scared like that!' Sally laughed too; we both laughed together for the first time for an age.

"'Don't you like my my dress? Grandad said it would be too small now too. But I can do anything here!' She stuck her tongue out. 'That's to Grandad!' and she laughed again. It was obvious they'd been doing this for a while. I had to make the effort. 'No, the dress looks lovely. You ignore Grandad, sometimes he's just rude! And, I love the way you've done your hair - very cute.' I could feel myself tighten up, I just, I so just wanted to hold my child, pick up the cute little girl before me. I even put my hands out in a mock cuddle. And I told her. 'Do you know what I am doing?' 'No, what?' Sally grinned. 'I'm giving you a big cuddle,' I said. Damn, the tears started to flow again and Sally was all blurred. 'I'd like that. Grandad's friend says we can work on that. I can see hear and see now.' She sounded so happy. So alive. 'I'd love that too. For now we'll just have to imagine.' I told her. 'And you know what?' 'What?' Sally said, excited. 'That dress would never do up! I think you need to let Mum help you with what you wear. You're ten now! A big girl. Not a silly little girl' I remember her smile fade. I don't know why I said it. It was stupid. I just wanted to have my little girl back. I wanted to sort her out, help her. But what happened was that she vanished. Her image just went pop. She was gone. But, it was all so beautiful. To see her again."

Joan sobbed. Melvin levered himself up from the sofa. He crossed the space between them and, on his knees, wrapped his arms about her. She fell against him and cried. Huge big drops leaked from her eyes, the pressure of the grief pushing them out, no matter how tightly she squeezed them shut. They ran down her face. Their stains spread across Melvin's chest. He whispered to her, "It's okay. It's okay."

