
# Chapter 21 - The beginning

<!-- 
Godwin wraps up and claims a victory, and fires a warning.

Narrative:
    This is intended by Godwin to be the end of the story. It is succinct and self-knowing.
    1. He loves Gray and that is a challenge
    2. He admires Melvin and what he did to keep Sally alive, against all the odds. He joins Gray as someone who is ushering in a new order, a new type of human
    3. He dismisses Lia, and agrees with Gray, and thinks she is a *wannabe* who is really in the same camp as he is himself.
    4. He sees the future as two camps now.

The two camps:
    1. The new
    2. The old

Godwin sees conflict ahead. He hopes that his story and his *balance* in telling it, where he started and where he ended it, will help people see some sense and stand down from a fight no one can win.

 -->
So, that is my story. Or is is my story of the stories that make up what happened. I think you will agree that they are complete and that they are a better version than that played out in the media, for the lurid and sensational reasons that it had.

The future. Does it belong to likes of Melvin and Gray, or to myself and Lia? Is it a *Bright Futures* future where the likes of Raphaella plays God to we mortals? Where in this future is there a place for Joan, or even Vi? Where is *my* place?

My future is missing Sally. I think that in my future there is no Sally. In my future Sally is already in another future, she will be outside of our time. The horror of her life is a thing of the past; her life now, if that is how we describe it, is something else, something none of us who shared here can understand. She is now inscrutable, we cannot imagine or empathise with her thoughts as they are so different from us. She is an exotic intelligence.

...

History shows that the ideas that really take a hold and have real endurance are not those that come in with a flash and bang. I have always thought that people are far too attracted to the notion that big events, big ideas and big people shape history. Sure they make the most noise. And they are easy to think about. But they never remain. Once, a meteorite hit the earth, and with it came a calamitous end to one of the most enduring denizens of our planets: the dinosaur. It seems, when simplified a monumental event, one that changed everything. True, for the extinct species of dinosaur, it was significant. For the Earth, for the planet, not so much. Dinosaurs lived on, as birds, other species thrived. The huge impact crater was smoothed away by the vast effects of gravity, meteorology, geology and time, until today we struggle to find it. Time wears down mountains, uplifts seas, moves continents and extinguishes stars. There is no battlefield that is not grown over, submerged or built upon. There is no civilisation that has not crumbled to rock and dust. It is the tiny forces that win out. Gravity is a weak force, almost inconsequential when experienced at a component level. Everything we know has it. When summed together it becomes the most significant force of nature, enabling planets, stars and black holes. Our history is similar, the battle fields no longer show the blood of the fallen, our artificial ideologies, like religions, come and go.

Is there a new idea creeping up on us? One that will be to us like the meteor to the dinosaurs. It won't explode the world in a huge bang. It will slowly change us, without our noticing, tearing down the mountains of our culture, uplifting the seas of our individualism. Some of us will resist it. We will fear the change, or not comprehend it. Will we be dinosaurs and they who embrace the change be birds? Will they soar above us, away from us and look down on us as gods?






