 prologue - seeking

Lia in a Cuba Street cafe in her home town of Wellington, New Zealand. She meets with someone she likes (or even loves), but she can't get through to him. He is likeable, but vain and closed. There is a hint that Lia wants a reason to not go through with what she is planning, she is seeking a reason. The scene captures the essence of being human. Love, desire, food, fear - the gap between us. How can be really know what the other is thinking? So, because we cannot, we project our own self upon their image and that is usually damaging to the interaction.

 human 1.0 - the simple things in life

Storyline: Human 1.0 [Sally]. This is the human aspect. An adventure and drama that covers the emotional concepts of becoming transhuman. Simpler concepts, more dialogue, less description, save those that are drilling into the imaged state that Sally is living through. It would be too easy to let this overwhelm the overall narrative. You want the reader to cheer for Sally and Melvin, while booing Charles Godwin and Vi, yet still hoping for Joan. 

Starts with a simple (card) game between a young girl, Sally and her grandfather, Melvin. It is touching and funny, the smart young girl gently teasing the grandfather's slow reactions and lack of trickery. They then go outside to a park and just chat and enjoy each others company. The love between them is beautiful.

On the way home the little girl stumbles and falls. She cries and he holds her, telling her that he "will always look after her."

 human 2.0 - connecting

Storyline: Human 2.0 [Lia]. This is the hard sci-fi of the book. Tells of the technology and effects upon the mind and body. Also, explores the reasons why, seemingly intelligent, young and capable people would go through with the surgery and why it could go wrong. Need to ensure that the EQ readers, who will engage with the Human 1.0 storyline are not switched off by this sotryline. Human 2.0 is more philosophical and is more complex with regard to themes and content. Treatment needs to brief, returning to the more meaty Human 1.0 storyline often without leaving anything hanging or requiring the reader to hold too much in their minds between the two.

Lia in Shanghai. Finding the doctor and having the surgery. She discusses the procedure with Dr Li, the surgeon; he too has a Gate. 

Ends with Dr Li giving Lia anaesthetic and Lia fading from consciousness.

 human 1.1 - a fading flower

Sometime later Melvin is playing the same (card) game with her. There is less laughter and the little girl is moody and petulant. She is losing and is no longer winning like she usually does. Gone is the quick, dexterous ease with which she played before. She loses her temper and throws the cards across the room and storms out.

Grandad is puzzled. He speaks to his daughter who is afraid and defensive. Something is wrong.

More and more the girl's physical abilities are unpicked. She stumbles more and fumbles more and starts to mispronounce words more. Sally is sick. She is losing her motor functions and no one is sure why.

The doctors are damning in their prognosis. The mother falls apart, leaving only the grandfather to support and console the girl. Slowly she slips away, to be left locked-in with no evident external sign that she has anything left of the bright young girl she once was.

Ends with Sally hospitalised and on life-support.

 human 2.1 beta - a new reality

Lia wakes. Her head is sore, but feels no significant difference. Dr Li tells her the Gate is powered off. He powers it up and asks to connect with Lia.

KEY PASSAGE:
The effect is a huge rush. She feels his satisfaction, feels it. He feels her fear and apprehension, and he soothes her anxieties. He shows her how to find other people to connect to, but that the rules of safely connecting are similar to Internet social media.

STYLE NOTE:
note style for writing the dialogue when connected no punctuation no capitalisation only italics remember to keep the writing short and terse with little or no recursion

The experience of connecting is amazing, euphoric, almost drug-like in the way it changes her perceptions. The barriers to communication are down there is a immediate interchange of information *and* emotions.

Ends with Lia feels hugely positive and not really paying any heed to Dr Li's warnings.

 human 1.2 - locked-in

The mother starts to mourn and is angry at her father for his faith in his granddaughter. They fight and he has to use subterfuge to even continue to see the girl. The girl deteriorates and requires support to keep her alive. The doctors are convinced there is little hope of improvement; the mother strongly advocates turning it off. The grandfather is furious and seeks help, he is convinced that she is still in there.

A woman comes to him saying that she may be able to help. She describes how the a "Gate" may not only be used to connect to her, but that her deteriorating health may be helped by her reconnecting. 

Note: trials with monkeys that when isolated fall into despair and their health fails them.

The grandfather works out a way of circumventing the mother and the Gate is inserted.

Ends with Sally having surgery to attach the Gate and it being powered up to connect.

 human 2.2 - some of us are led

She connects, but finds that those she connects to are shockingly similar to those she connected to *naturally*. She is poor communicator and expects others to fill the gap. In fact she has always given too little and expected others to make more effort towards her than she gave to them.

From an amazing start, she finds she is just as alone. So she tries to make a significant change to the way she interacts. This leads to more unsavoury characters (H+ extremists) attracted to her almost mindless naivety.

Ends with her in a situation that she would never have allowed wanted. She is now the instrument of others' will and she cannot see a way out. She is frightened and alone.

 human 1.3 LTS - a locked gate opens

Nothing happens. The mother finds out and has him arrested. Hope is fading and the mother wants to have the Gate removed. The doctors warn that another surgery may be fatal. The woman secretly arranges for the Gate to remain connected by blackmailing the active consultant. She plays a text game with the girl to show how to communicate. Nothing.

The woman speaks with the grandfather, who is on bail. She says it looks like it has not worked at that the girl may not be able to understand how to interact. The grandfather presses and asks for access. She enables a remote means of text-based access. 

Ends with, "Hello granddad."

 human 2.3 - we are all of us responsible

Nea is in peril. The job she was asked to do fails. She is now hunted by the police, the security of the company she was trying to attack and by those who coerced her into it.

Ends with Nea turning off her Gate her mind quietens and the mass of input fades to nothing.

 human 1.4 - one can't live on words alone

Begins with the initial joy and emotion of being able to connect to the little girl. The messages from Sally are a deluge of questions and conversation; endless chatter as if they were to stop they may never start again.

However, this is soon tempered by the situation: there she lies, grey, lifeless, supported only by machines, fed through a tube, her waste collecting in a bag. The text-based interactions are equally harrowing: she describes the black space, entirely deprived of any physical sensation.

Grandad goes to visit a sensory deprivation tank to attempt to grasp it. He cannot, even there he can hear his own breathing, his own heartbeat; he can feel the warm water resisting his movements. She feels, hears or sees nothing. The only stimulation she receives is the messages that come through the Gate. If the words stop there is nothing left: a void without echo.

Her mother climbs only briefly from her previous despair. "What kind of existence is this? What is she, a little girl or a machine?" The point is taken hard by Grandfather, he plunges into the possibilities. 

Then the woman manages to convince them to attach her to the Internet, so she can at least have more to do, more to seek, something to distract her from her predicament. It works, to a degree, the distraction of the overwhelming wealth of information, lifts her from her increasing despair.

The woman shows the other options. The mother at first resists; more surgery would be needed, more risk to her daughter's fragile life. Grandfather pushes that Sally is asked what she wants. Remarkably she is well informed, she has already sought out the possible solutions. She wants sight and hearing; but she so dreadfully wants to be held again.

 human 1.5 - the image of frankenstein

Grandfather is asked to a meeting by a set of representatives of the board of his company. They are accompanied by a man who says nothing, but introduced as Mr. Godwin. The board are concerned about the publicity the granddaughter's treatment is receiving. Grandad doesn't understand. What has that got to do with them, or anyone else! Mr Godwin asks Grandad whether he feels his granddaughter is still his granddaughter, or whether he is creating something that is just trying to recover her lost memory. Grandfather explodes in fury and storms from the meeting.

Ends with the little girl being able to see the feed from a video camera.

 human 2.4 - the past is before us


Starts with Nea in a small, dirty basement apartment. She's withdrawn, relying on takeout food and refusing to go outside. The flat has no viable Internet connection. she has no phone. She has unplugged. She hopes that disconnected she is invisible that the world that existed when the Gate was open would vanish.

She is depressed and lonely.

There is a knock on the door. Fear overwhelms her. "Who is it?" 
"It's Gray. It's okay."

Nea slowly opened the door. Gray stood there close to the opening crack, the slight crease between her eyes no more than a hand span from Nea's.

"You letting me in?"
"Sure." Nea stepped back slowly and opened the the door just enough for Gray to slide in. She pushed the door shut and as she turned away back into the room, Gray grasped her should hard and spun her to face her. Her hand can up behind Nea's head and pulled her into her. She held her. All the tension in Nea's body left and she slumped against Gray's neck. She sobbed.

Ends with Gray leaving Lia convincing she has a better future if she fixes the broken things.

 human 1.6 - mr godwin

"She did the job I wanted her to do."
"Really? She just messed up, now it's all over the media. We're now seen as a threat. That's surely *not* what you wanted. Jesus, you're an arrogant prick."
"What you want to keep lurking in the shadows. That lump on your head is not even legal." He laughs. "You've no idea."
"You don't have one I notice."
"No, nor will I ever. I don't need to. I can communicate well enough without a hunk of metal rammed into my skull. There's nothing you can do that I can't. Your plug is just raising your game; without it you wouldn't be even playing the same sport. Sport." He spat out the last word as if he saw the other man as just that: sport.

hes no idea does he
no and im not sure of him after what he asked the girl to do and the way he treated her
he is useful though
he is

 human 1.7 - the joy of text is overrated

Sally is improving rapidly. Her body's health responds to the nourishment her mind is being provided.

"Her improvement is remarkable. We can clearly see her mental states now - whether she is awake or asleep or whether she is sleeping. I am so happy for you."
Grandad looked at her hard, "Happy for yourself too, no doubt. She's your ultimate saleswoman. She wants more and more. I'm afraid of where it will go. Her mother is so conflicted."
"I don't understand. What option do you have? You're happy with how she is? You're happy with her just surfing the Internet all day and watching videos of the world about her. She wants interaction. She is smart and has worked it out. If she is stuck physically as she is, she will never be able to live any sort of fulfilled life. She wants more than to be able to message people. She wants to see them directly and that they see her."

Ends with ...

 human 1.8 - consensus 1.0


"I'm sorry. The vote was unanimous. The board feel that there is too close a relationship between the recovery of Sally and the business of the company. There are rumours that you used company resources and employees to help with the integration of Sally to the Internet."
"The code used is open source. There are a couple of dev labs that specialise in this stuff. They helped."
"That's illegal."
"No it is not. The act of an unlicensed use of a Gate is illegal, or rather the person installing the Gate is operating outside of the law. The law says nothing about software or the person receiving the Gate."
"It's a shady area. So you are saying that no employees were used?"
"Not to my knowledge."
"Come on, that's a convienient line."
"I can't control what employees do in their own time by their own volition."
"Their contracts do. They are clear on working outside of the company while in our employ."
"Look, you want me gone - fine. You try to get me out to save money and try and not pay me outâ?¦ It won't end well. Sally is very public you know. I can't imagine shareholders liking that story." 
"Okay, let's not go there. Listen, let's get to the real point. There are some on the board who want to know about your relationship with Bright Future."
"BFC provided the Gate and the technical team that implanted it into Sally. They provided a consultant ///woman who assisted in connecting to Sally. They're good, professional. I trust them as I know what they want and why they put forward so much resource."
"You aren't involved with their business?"
"No, I guess I am their customer."
"You paid for their assistance?"
"No, as I said, it's pretty clear why they'd help. The publicity alone is worth whatever I could pay them. They're looking pretty good right now."
"That's the problem. Some on the board and certain large shareholders are not happy about this..."
"You mean that Godwin clown."
"Among others."
"Look I'm a pretty straightforward businessman. I don't get the issue. We produce software and sell software services. We're doing well. I can't see that Sally's story will affect that; there's such thing as bad publicity, as they say. And BFC are in no way an issue, they are not a competitor. Not even remotely. Sorry, you say let's get to the real point. You're not. Come on say what you've been sent to say."
"This isn't about business, it's about morals. Many on the board and many shareholders have expressed clearly they think you've overstepped a line."
"You're fucking kidding me? I've overstepped a moral line to save the life of my granddaughter? What the fuck?"
"Have you saved her life? Or have you done something else? We tried to warn you last time we met. You've been used by an organisation to further their agenda. They used your daughter to have a story about how humankind can now cheat death."
"What I'm playing God. Oh for fucks sake, *really*? This is due to some religious nutjobs who own our stock. You think BFC used me? They saved my granddaughter!"
"Not BFC, Bright Future, the parent organisation. They are pushing a transhuman agenda. You've given them the ultimate trojan horse."
"Get out. Just get the fuck out. You've gone fucking insane. Pay me off, otherwise this will be spilled across the media and you'll be a fucking laughing stock."
"Will we? Not a lot of people like the idea of transhumanism. People don't like change. People won't like at all the idea that this change is against everything they've ever known."

 human 2.5 - consensus 2.0


"Look you're messed up, but turning away from the good because you met some bad isn't bright. Let me help you. There are more of us that you think."

Interaction between Nea and Gray. Gray gives a different perspective on being connected and how Nea has to change, to grow herself.

She shows her how to properly connect. And also introduces her to some other friends.

Gray and her friends close her out. They debate helping Nea. 

How connected consensus works. The analogy of the pull request, but in real-time and fast. The connection of feelings not just language.

Ends with consensus is reached. They will.

 human 2.6 - reputation



The connected group feel that while they want to help Nea, she has to help them too. This is the new world: you must enhance your reputation, to do this you must participate. Think of this like a tutorial leading you through a set of steps to gain badges for online interactions. It is a led activity, but one you need to do in order to gain access to higher levels. You need to show competency.

This time, due to the circumstances there is a time-limit for Nea. A clock starts to tick that will mean that she will be excluded from the very thing that she has always wanted - a family to belong to.

To do this she needs to challenge her own interaction with the world. To become more honest with herself and Not have such high expectations of others.

It starts well enough, but as the levels get harder and harder she finds herself falling back into old patterns. She starts to resent the challenge and starts to resent the Gate as the answer.

Ends with Lia 

 human 1.9 - old days connections

Sally and her mother re-connect. It is beautiful.

But the lack of control Joan has over Sally and all that is happening makes her bitter. She hates the digital means of connecting to Sally, worse though she has lost her immediate role of what she sees is a mother: a guide and instructor, someone who tells the child what she needs to do.

 human 1.10 - bad old days

Joan who is in turmoil with her feeling reaches out to her own mother.

"The only news I have is what I see on television."

She thinks what has been done to Sally is wrong, an abomination.
"I have a friend, a very influential friend, who agrees with me." [Mr Godwin]

Joan capitulates in front of the emotional manipulation. Her own irrational fears are reinforced by her mother's soothing words. Words that are hardened by the "truths" of her mother.

Joan reverts to an earlier state, almost childlike herself. Where she allows herself to be so simply manipulated by her mother. Her desire of control of Sally is inherited.

Ends with Joan leaving Vi, uncertain of the way to go.

 human 1.11 - consensus failure

Charles Godwin gives an interview. His narcissism completely derails his intended message.

Godwin meets with his group. They attack him. The terror of a hidden hand at work unpicks them, the irony of their own image being projected and then reflected back is heavy here.

The group splinter. Godwin is left berating the others, but they have already left.

Ends with a summary of scathing social media reaction and backlash.

 human 2.6 RC - connection bonds


Melvin decides that to help Sally further he needs to better understand her situation and better connect to her.

Ends with Melvin in Shanghai to see Dr Li.

 human 2.5.1 LTS - self connection required

Lia has done little to address the issues that Gray said she needs to in order to make better use of her connectedness.

Ends that she decides to leave her Gate turned off.

 END
