 Consensus


It is the very near future, a young woman, Lia, walks along a quiet street in Shanghai, China. She is a stranger there. Small shops stretch back into gloomy interiors selling all manner of items. Lia is a shy, insecure woman who does not easily interact with people. She is almost scruffily dressed, has short untidy hair; and is thin and pale skinned. She is seeking something that will help her better connect with others and be part of something greater than herself. She has decided to add a technical device, called a Gate, to her brain. This device enables her to connect directly to the Internet and others instantly, without speech or text. She asks directions, in rather stilted Chinese, to a street she has written on a card. In a nearby dingy and damp basement in an old office block, she has the surgery. The experience of connection is exhilarating, a drug-like buzz that thrills her even though the only connection is to Dr Li, a short, fat, gentle Chinese man who conducts the surgery. 

Meanwhile, in West London, a ten-year-old girl, Sally, plays games with her grandfather, Melvin. The house they are in is a large town house over three floors. It is comfortable and warm. Outside looks cold and damp - it is winter. They go for a walk in the local park. She is quick and smart and revels physically - jumping, running, spinning around the park. They connect as only a grandfather and granddaughter can: constant chatter met with kindly patience. On the way home, she stumbles and falls - the first sign of a degenerating illness that will soon leave her in a persistent vegetative state. 

Melvin is a wealthy owner of a software services company, he is about seventy years old, but healthy and active. He is a very calm and thoughtful man who is unlikely to show anger. He is devastated about Sally's predicament and desperately seeks a means of saving Sally and enable her to connect to the outside world. At his office, a woman called Raphaella, comes to see him and offers help. Raphaella is the representative of Bright Future Cybernetics the maker of medical devices used to assist physically disabled or neurologically impaired patients. She has a southern European accent and is elegantly dressed. She is about fifty years of age. After some discussion and lacking viable options, Melvin agrees to have a Gate inserted into Sally's brain. 

Joan, Sally's mother, an emotional and resentful woman has already resigned herself to Sally's situation and has begun to mourn. She is a very thin, dark-haired woman who dresses in highly fashionable clothes. She 45 years old. There is no mention of a husband or father to Sally. She is unhappy at Melvin's plan to save Sally and does not trust either Raphaella and the technology proposed. 'Will that be Sally or a machine pretending to be Sally?'. Emotion blinds Joan to such an extent she cannot see the fear that makes her appear almost willful in her resistance. No logical discussion makes any impact. She only responds to brief conversations that are gossipy or emotional.

Melvin and Raphaella conspire to conduct the surgery without Joan's knowledge. It is a success, but the exceptional nature of Sally's physical situation means that the hoped for communication with her does not occur immediately. Joan has Melvin arrested, and Raphaella escapes to keep trying connecting to Sally. When Melvin is on bail, Raphaella gives him a tablet to connect.

In Sally's dark and lonely world, she is slipping away. Without any stimulation, she can no longer work out whether she is awake or asleep. Then the words appear. After a struggle to manipulate them, she can read them. She responds, "Hello, Grandad."

The delight at connecting to Sally moves Joan closer to her father. The success also makes the media, which delights Joan. She sifts through the endless articles written and readily voluteers for interviews and comment. Raphaella reappears and informs them that although the situation is sound progress, Sally will need much more than just text interactions to keep her healthy and sane.

Both the Lia and Melvin are then subject to a set of mysterious mishaps and setbacks that cause them to doubt their involvement. Melvin loses control of his business. Lia involves herself in a criminal hacking incident when back in New Zealand. A cabal of neo-Luddites, led by the narcissistic Mr Godwin, finds cybernetic enhancements disturbing and an abomination. They are hard set against any cybernetic augmentation of humans and seek to outlaw the practice. Meanwhile, they undertake a campaign of misinformation and fear to undermine the growing Transhuman movement. 

Sally, is now connected to the Internet and can increasingly manipulate her world. She reveals herself to her mother via virtual-reality goggles. After an initial struggle, seeing Sally is a joyful event for Joan, but it emotionally overwhelms her and leaves her in dreadful turmoil. She feels her daughter is now more machine than girl. Joan reconnects with her estranged mother, Vi (Vivian), who is already in contact with the neo-Luddites and Mr Godwin. Vi is a drunk, a bitter woman who resents anyone she cannot control and manipulate. She is cruel when things don't go her way; she treats Joan dreadfully, blaming her for the situation.

Lia is now in hiding. She is hiding from the neo-Luddites and herself. She is living in a small, damp apartment near the hospital in Wellington. She is utterly despondent and regrets the Gate attached to her brain. It is now turned off. The police drop the case against her for hacking as they could find no physical evidence of her involvement. A knock at the door comes one evening. She thinks of running, but it is Gray, a woman she connected to before the incident but never got to know. Gray explains what it means to be truly connected and how she and a group of connected people were changing the way humans interact and behave. Gray tells Lia that she had taken a wrong path, with the wrong people, with the wrong mindset. For her to get what she wanted, she needs to change herself first. Lia understands what Gray means and has already realised that many of her problems were of her making. Gray asks Lia if she would like help. Lia says yes. Gray connects with her group, and they collectively agree to help her - showing the power of group consensus between the Enhancers. Gray leaves, but Lia (still not connected) realises that she may not want to change herself the way Gray describes.

The Enhancers ask Lia to challenge herself and help them. Their goal is subtlely undermine the neo-Luddites and their media campaign. Through this Lia will gain repution in the Enhancer collective. This means that trust will be gained and it will be easier to find new people to connect to. Lia finds the tasks hard, she finds it difficult to devote the time required to feedback into the system. She still expects that others will want to connect to her, find her. But she seems to miss the fact that to find someone in this new world she needs to leave suitable breadcrumbs to help them. She realises that the journey will be long and very hard.

The neo-Luddites are pushing hard. However, they underestimate the emotional power of the girl's plight and the impact it has in the media and popular culture. Their rather open criticism of Melvin backfires spectacularly during an interview given by Mr Godwin on primetime television. It causes a social media outrage. They have hugely underestimated the nature of the underground Enhancer movement and the potential of their connectedness. The Enhancer group then connect to Sally to help protect her and advise her. They then fight back using the opportunity Mr Godwin has given them to discredit some of the neo-Luddites to slow the advance of their anti-information. The neo-Luddites realising the Enhancer's reach, allow their fears to split them apart, radically reducing their ability to influence a wider consensus. They are in stark contrast to the consensus that the Enhancer movement use.

The book ends with a similar sequence to the opening, but this time with Melvin having a Gate attached so he can be closer to Sally. But Lia leaves hers off - she is disconnected but does not remove the Gate -  her personality at odds with the connectedness the Gate brings.